Artificial Intelligence
The intelligence demonstrated by machines is known as Artificial Intelligence. Artificial Intelligence has grown to be very popular in todays world. It is the simulation of natural intelligence in machines that are programmed to learn and mimic the actions of humans. These machines are able to learn with experience and perform human like tasks. As technologies such as AI continue to grow, they will have a great impact on our quality of life. Its but natural that everyone today wants to connect with AI technology somehow, may it be as an end user or pursuing a career in Artificial Intelligence. Artificial Intelligence is a terminator like figure that can act and think on its own. Building an AI system is a careful process of reverse engineering human traits and capabilities in a machine, and using its computational prowess to surpass what we are capable of. 
To understand How Aritificial Intelligence actually works, one needs to deep dive into the various sub domains of Artificial Intelligence and and understand how those domains could be applied into the various fields of the industry. You can also take up an artificial intelligence course that will help you gain a comprehensive understanding. Different Artificial Intelligence entities are built for different purposes, and thats how they varyExtensive research in Artificial Intelligence also divides it into two more categories, namely Strong Artificial Intelligence and Weak Artificial Intelligence. The purpose of Artificial Intelligence is to aid human capabilities and help us make advanced decisions with far reaching consequences. Thats the answer from a technical standpoint. From a philosophical perspective, Artificial Intelligence has the potential to help humans live more meaningful lives devoid of hard labour, and help manage the complex web of interconnected individuals, companies, states and nations to function in a manner thats beneficial to all of humanity.
Currently, the purpose of Artificial Intelligence is shared by all the different tools and techniques that we have invented over the past thousand years  to simplify human effort, and to help us make better decisions. Artificial Intelligence has also been touted as our Final Invention, a creation that would invent ground breaking tools and services that would exponentially change how we lead our lives, by hopefully removing strife, inequality and human suffering.
Thats all in the far future though  were still a long way from those kinds of outcomes. Currently, Artificial Intelligence is being used mostly by companies to improve their process efficiencies, automate resource heavy tasks, and to make business predictions based on hard data rather than gut feelings. As all technology that has come before this, the research and development costs need to be subsidised by corporations and government agencies before it becomes accessible to everyday laymenAI is used in different domains to give insights into user behaviour and give recommendations based on the data.  Netflix uses past user data to recommend what movie a user might want to see next, making the user hooked onto the platform and increase watch time. Facebook uses past data of the users to automatically give suggestions to tag your friends, based on their facial features in their images. AI is used everywhere by large organisations to make an end users life simpler. Theres no doubt in the fact that technology has made our life better. From music recommendations, map directions, mobile banking to fraud prevention, AI and other technologies have taken over. Theres a fine line between advancement and destruction. The field of robotics has been advancing even before AI became a reality. At this stage, artificial intelligence is helping robotics to innovate faster with efficient robots. Robots in AI have found applications across verticals and industries especially in the manufacturing and packaging industries. Jobs in AI have been steadily increasing over the past few years and will continue growing at an accelerating rate. 57% of Indian companies are looking forward to hiring the right talent to match up the Market Sentiment. On average, there has been a 60 70% hike in salaries of aspirants who have successfully transitioned into AI roles. Mumbai stays tall in the competition followed by Bangalore and Chennai. As per research, the demand for AI Jobs have increased but efficient workforce has not been keeping pace with it. Machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence  which defines one of the core tenets of Artificial Intelligence  the ability to learn from experience, rather than just instructions.
Machine Learning algorithms automatically learn and improve by learning from their output. They do not need explicit instructions to produce the desired output.  They learn by observing their accessible data sets and compares it with examples of the final output. The examine the final output for any recognisable patterns and would try to reverse engineer the facets to produce an output. Deep Learning is a subfield of machine learning concerned with algorithms inspired by the structure and function of the brain called artificial neural networks. Deep Learning concepts are used to teach machines what comes naturally to us humans. Using Deep Learning, a computer model can be taught to run classification acts taking image, text, or sound as an input.
Deep Learning is becoming popular as the models are capable of achieving state of the art accuracy. Large labelled data sets are used to train these models along with the neural network architectures.
Simply put, Deep Learning is using brain simulations hoping to make learning algorithms efficient and simpler to use. Let us now see what is the difference between Deep Learning and Machine Learning. A component of Artificial Intelligence, Natural Language Processing is the ability of a machine to understand the human language as it is spoken. As humans, we have always been fascinated by technological changes and fiction, right now, we are living amidst the greatest advancements in our history. Artificial Intelligence has emerged to be the next big thing in the field of technology. Organizations across the world are coming up with breakthrough innovations in artificial intelligence and machine learning. Artificial intelligence is not only impacting the future of every industry and every human being but has also acted as the main driver of emerging technologies like big data, robotics and IoT. Considering its growth rate, it will continue to act as a technological innovator for the foreseeable future. Hence, there are immense opportunities for trained and certified professionals to enter a rewarding career. As these technologies continue to grow, they will have more and more impact on the social setting and quality of life.
Getting certified in AI will give you an edge over the other aspirants in this industry. With advancements such as Facial Recognition, AI in Healthcare, Chat bots, and more, now is the time to build a path to a successful career in Artificial Intelligence. Virtual assistants have already made their way into everyday life, helping us save time and energy. Self driving cars by Tech giants like Tesla have already shown us the first step to the future. AI can help reduce and predict the risks of climate change, allowing us to make a difference before its too late.
